---
title: 20. Test Kitchen - `kitchen.yml` File
author: Aaron Lippold
---

## Understanding the `kitchen.yml` File

The [`kitchen.yml`](./kitchen.yml) file is the primary configuration file for Test Kitchen. It outlines the shared configuration for all your testing environments, platforms, and the testing framework to be used.

Each of the subsequent Kitchen files will inherit the shared settings from this file automatically and merge them with the settings in the child Kitchen file.

## Example `kitchen.yml` File

```yaml
---
verifier:
  name: inspec
  sudo: true
  reporter:
    - cli
    - json:spec/results/%{platform}_%{suite}.json
  inspec_tests:
    - name: RedHat 9 STIG v1r2
      path: .
  input_files:
    - kitchen.inputs.yml
  <% if ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>
  controls:
    - "<%= ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>"
  <% end %>
  load_plugins: true
  env_vars:
    - "CHEF_LICENSE=<%= ENV['CHEF_LICENSE'] %>"

suites:
  - name: vanilla
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-vanilla.yml

  - name: hardened
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-hardened.yml

transport:
  max_ssh_sessions: 6
```

# Breakdown of the `kitchen.yml` file

```yaml
---
verifier:
  name: inspec
  sudo: true
  reporter:
    - cli
    - json:spec/results/%{platform}_%{suite}.json
  inspec_tests:
    - name: RedHat 9 STIG v1r2
      path: .
  input_files:
    - kitchen.inputs.yml
  <% if ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>
  controls:
    - "<%= ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>"
  <% end %>
  load_plugins: true
  env_vars:
    - "CHEF_LICENSE=<%= ENV['CHEF_LICENSE'] %>"
```

This first section configures the verifier, which is the tool that checks if your system is in the desired state. Here, it's using InSpec.

- `sudo: true` means that InSpec will run with sudo privileges.
- `reporter` specifies the formats in which the test results will be reported. Here, it's set to report in the command-line interface (`cli`) and in a JSON file (`json:spec/results/%{platform}_%{suite}.json`).  Note that variables will be templated into this filename by Kitchen to help you differentiate between the different testing configurations you're iterating over.
- `inspec_tests` specifies the InSpec profiles to run. Here, it's running the "RedHat 9 STIG v1r2" profile located in the current directory (`path: .`).
- `input_files` specifies files that contain input variables for the InSpec profile. Here, it's using the `kitchen.inputs.yml` file.
- The `controls` section is dynamically set based on the `INSPEC_CONTROL` environment variable. If the variable is set, only the specified control will be run.
- `load_plugins: true` means that InSpec will load any available plugins.

```yaml
suites:
  - name: vanilla
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-vanilla.yml

  - name: hardened
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-hardened.yml
```

This section defines the test suites. Each suite represents a different configuration to test.

- Each suite has a `name` and a `provisioner`.
- The `provisioner` section specifies the Ansible playbook to use for the suite. Here, it's using the `ansible-role-rhel-vanilla.yml` playbook for the "vanilla" suite and the `ansible-role-rhel-hardened.yml` playbook for the "hardened" suite.

```yaml
transport:
  max_ssh_sessions: 6
```

The last section allows you to configure attributes of the transport.  In this case, we're setting the maximum number of parallel SSH sessions.

## Environment Variables in `kitchen.yml`

- `INSPEC_CONTROL`: This variable allows you to specify a single control to run during the `bundle exec kitchen verify` phase. This is particularly useful for testing or debugging a specific requirement.

# Recap on Kitchen Stages

The workflow of Test Kitchen involves the following steps:

1. **Create:** Test Kitchen uses the driver to create an instance of the platform.
2. **Converge:** Test Kitchen uses the provisioner to apply the infrastructure code to the instance. In this case, it's using Ansible playbooks.
3. **Verify:** Test Kitchen uses the verifier to check if the instance is in the desired state.
4. **Destroy:** Test Kitchen uses the driver to destroy the instance after testing. This is not shown in your file.
