---
index: 3
icon: page
title: 3. Studying an InSpec Profile
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## Studying an InSpec profile

Let's start by creating a profile that will contain NGINX tests.

At your terminal, type:

```bash
inspec init profile my_nginx
```

The terminal output should look like the following:

```bash
Create new profile at /root/my_nginx
 * Create directory controls
 * Create file controls/example.rb
 * Create file inspec.yml
 * Create directory libraries
 * Create file README.md
```

### Understanding the profile structure

Let's take a look at how the profile is structured. We'll start with how a profile's files are structured and then move to what makes up an InSpec control.

First, run `tree` to see what's in the `my_nginx` profile.

```sh
tree my_nginx
```
Which should look like:
```
      my_nginx
      ├── README.md
      ├── controls
      │   └── example.rb
      └── inspec.yml

      1 directory, 3 files
```

Here's the role of each component.

- `README.md` provides documentation about the profile, including what it covers and how to run it.
- The `controls` directory contains files which implement the InSpec tests.
- `inspec.yml` provides metadata, or information, about the profile. Metadata includes the profile's description, author, copyright, and version.
- The `libraries` directory contains resource extensions. A resource extension enables you to [define your own resource types](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/dsl_resource/). You won't work with resource extensions in this module.

### Understand a control's structure

Let's take a look at the default control file, `controls/example.rb`.

```ruby
title 'sample section'

# you can also use plain tests
describe file('/tmp') do
  it { should be_directory }
end

# you add controls here
control 'tmp-1.0' do                        # A unique ID for this control
  impact 0.7                                # The criticality, if this control fails.
  title 'Create /tmp directory'             # A human-readable title
  desc 'An optional description...'
  describe file('/tmp') do                  # The actual test
    it { should be_directory }
  end
end
```

::: tip Tip for developing profiles
When creating new profiles use the existing example file as a template
:::

This example shows two tests. Both tests check for the existence of the `/tmp` directory. The second test provides additional information about the test. Let's break down each component.

- `control` (line 9) is followed by the control's name. Each control in a profile has a unique name.
- `impact` (line 10) measures the relative importance of the test and must be a value between 0.0 and 1.0.
- `title` (line 11) defines the control's purpose.
- `desc` (line 12) provides a more complete description of what the control checks for.
- `describe` (lines 13 — 15) defines the test. Here, the test checks for the existence of the `/tmp` directory.

In Ruby, the `do` and `end` keywords define a `block`. An InSpec control always contains at least one `describe` block. However, a control can contain many `describe` blocks.
::: tip More information on a block in Ruby
[Ruby's block syntax](http://ruby-for-beginners.rubymonstas.org/blocks.html)
:::

### Understand a describe block's structure

As with many test frameworks, InSpec code resembles natural language. Here's the format of a describe block.

```ruby
describe <entity> do
  it { <expectation> }
end
```

An InSpec test has two main components: the subject to examine and the subject's expected state. Here, `<entity>` is the subject you want to examine, for example, a package name, service, file, or network port. The `<expectation>` specifies the desired result or expected state, for example, that a port should be open (or perhaps should not be open.)

Let's take a closer look at the `describe` block in the example.

```ruby
describe file('/tmp') do
  it { should be_directory }
end
```

Because InSpec resembles human-readable language, you might read this test as "/tmp should be a directory." Let's break down each component.

---

#### `file`

[file](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/file/) is an InSpec [resource](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/). If you're familiar with Chef, you know that a resource configures one part of the system. InSpec resources are similar. For example, the InSpec file resource tests for file attributes, including a file's owner, mode, and permissions. The example examines the /tmp directory.

---

#### `it`

The `it` statement validates one of your resource's features. A `describe` block contains one or more `it` statements. `it` enables you to test the resource itself. You'll also see `its`, which describes some feature of the resource, such as its mode or owner. You'll see examples of both `it` and `its` shortly.

---

#### `should`

`should` describes the expectation. `should` asserts that the condition that follows _should_ be true. Alternatively, `should_not` asserts that the condition that follows _should not_ be true. You'll see examples of both shortly.

---

#### `be_directory`

`be_directory` is an example of a [matcher](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/). A matcher compares a resource's actual value to its expected value. InSpec provides several predefined matchers. The `file` resource provides the `be_directory` matcher.
