---
index: 8
title: 8. Generating InSpec Results
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## Generating InSpec Results

InSpec allows you to send your test results to one or more *reporters*, or output formats. You can configure the reporter(s) using either the `--json-config` option or the `--reporter` option. While you can configure multiple reporters to write to different files, only one reporter can output to the screen (via stdout).

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx -t docker://nginx --reporter cli json:baseline_output.json
```

Note that we can output our scans to both the terminal (`cli`) and to a JSON report file (`json:baseline_output.json`) simultaneously if we want to.

### Syntax

You can specify one or more reporters using the `--reporter` flag. You can also specify a output by appending a path separated by a colon.

Output json to screen:

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json
```
@tab Alternative Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json:-
```
:::

Output yaml to screen:

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter yaml
```
@tab Alternative Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter yaml:-
```
:::

Output cli to screen and write json to a file:

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter cli json:tmp/output.json
```

Output nothing to screen and write junit and html to a file:

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter junit2:tmp/junit.xml html:www/index.html
```
Output json to screen and write to a junit file:

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json junit2:tmp/junit.xml | tee out.json
```

::: tip Flag order
If you wish to pass the profiles directly after specifying the reporters, you will need to use the end of options flag `--`:
```sh
inspec exec --reporter json junit2:tmp/junit.xml -- profile1 profile2
```
:::

You can run a sample InSpec command against the `nginx` target container running in the development lab environment using your `my_nginx` profile.

#### InSpec `config.json` file

InSpec also lets you capture all of these reporter options in a configuration file:

```json
{
  "reporter": {
    "cli": {
      "stdout": true
    },
    "json": {
      "file": "tmp/output.json",
      "stdout": false
    }
  }
}
```
You can read more about this at <https://docs.chef.io/inspec/config/>
### Supported Reporters

The following are the current supported reporters:

- cli
- json
- json-min
- yaml
- documentation
- junit2
- progress
- progress-bar
- json-rspec
- html2
- automate
- json-automate

You can read more here: <https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/reporters/>

#### Enhanced Outcomes

InSpec includes the `--enhanced-outcomes` flag to enrich the output format slightly if more detail is needed.

When this flag is passed, the control level status outcomes of the profile execution are `Passed`, `Failed`, `Not Applicable (N/A)`, `Not Reviewed (N/R)`, or `Error (ERR)`. This may or may not be more detail than needed.

#### Generating good report filenames

We recommend that you use descriptive filenames when you run InSpec in the real world. You will likely eventually aggregate dozens of report files from multiple systems over time, so we recommend that you generate reports that specify:

- the target they were run against
- a timestamp

This will save you headaches later.

``` sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json:nginx-$(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S").json
```

Here we add a bash `eval` (the `$(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S")`) to our filename when we invoke `inspec exec`. Now we can run tests multiple times with the same command and get a different filename each time.

Note that if you save InSpec results to a file (such as with the `json` reporter), and then re-run the same command, you will overwrite the original contents of that file with the more recent results. Be sure that all of your reports have unique names.

### Running Profiles from Network Locations

So far, we have been executing InSpec profiles that we have written ourselves and saved to the local machine. InSpec also gives you the ability to execute a profile that lives on the other end of an HTTP/S link or a `.git` link.

``` sh
inspec exec https://github.com/mitre/nginx-stigready-baseline -t docker://nginx
```

::: tip Pulling Profiles from the Network
We suggest that, in your real use cases for InSpec, you host your profile code on a version control system accessible from the internet (i.e. GitHub) and `exec` your tests from there. That way, you are always running an up-to-date version of the code, and won't run into issues with stale tests.

Note that "an up-to-date version" does not necessarily mean "run the `main` branch of the profile as it exists on GitHub." We suggest that you make use of releases in your code repository, and then use the link to a stable release ([GitHub example](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/linking-to-releases)) as your input to `inspec exec`. This conforms to best practices in automation -- avoid running any code that has not been thoroughly vetted as part of an offical release.
:::
::: warning Wait, what if I can't publish to GitHub?
Not everyone can open source their code, or make it available on the open Internet. Your organization or environment may be more suited to using a private code repository (e.g. GitLab or BitBucket) to store profiles. InSpec supports passing authentication tokens as part of profile locations:
``` sh
inspec exec https://API_TOKEN@gitlab.supersecret.com/profiles/inspec_baseline.git
```

See the [exec command docs](https://docs.chef.io/inspec/cli/#exec) for details.
:::

### Putting it all together

Let's try running an already-complete profile and generating a report.

The following command will run the SAF Validation Library's NGINX baseline profile from MITRE GitHub, and use the reporter to output a json file. You will need this JSON file for the next section, where we'll load our results into Heimdall:

```sh
inspec exec https://github.com/mitre/nginx-stigready-baseline -t docker://nginx --reporter cli json:nginx-full-baseline-$(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S").json
```
