---
index: 10
icon: page
title: 10. InSpec Profile Inputs vs. Overlays
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## 10. What is the difference between tailoring an InSpec profile with inputs vs. overlays?

Inputs are meant to tailor the profile while _still complying_ to the guidance document for which the profile is based. 

Overlays are used in the case that the organization requirements _differ_ from the security guidance. For example, if there are additional controls required or some controls not available for the organization's requirements.

### Profile Inputs (see `inspec.yml` file)

This profile uses InSpec Inputs to make the tests more flexible. You are able to provide inputs at runtime either via the cli or via YAML files to help the profile work best in your deployment.

#### **_Do not change the inputs in the `inspec.yml` file_**

The `inputs` configured in the `inspec.yml` file are **profile definition and defaults for the profile** and not for the user. InSpec provides two ways to adjust the profile's inputs at run-time that do not require modifiying `inspec.yml` itself. This is because automated profiles like this one are frequently run from a script, inside a pipeline or some kind of task scheduler. Such automation usually works by running the profile directly from its source (i.e. this repository), which means the runner will not have access to the `inspec.yml`.

To tailor the tested values for your deployment or organizationally defined values, **_you may update the inputs_**.

More information about InSpec inputs can be found in the [InSpec Inputs Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/inspec/inputs/).

