---
index: 2
icon: page
title: 2. Review the Fundamentals
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

In the [first class](https://mitre-inspec-developer.netlify.app/course/02.html), we explained the structure and output of InSpec Profiles. Let's review some content, then practice by revisiting, running, and viewing results of an InSpec profile.

## 2. InSpec Content Review
### 2.1 InSpec Profile Structure
Remember that a `profile` is a set of automated tests that usually relates directly back to a Security Requirements Benchmark.

Profiles have two (2) required elements:
- An `inspec.yml` file 
- A `controls` directory

and four (4) optional elements: 
- A `libraries` directory 
- A `files` directory
- An `inputs.yml` file 
- A `README.md` file

### 2.2 Control Structure

Let's take a look at the default control file, `controls/example.rb`.

```ruby
title 'sample section'

# you can also use plain tests
describe file('/tmp') do
  it { should be_directory }
end

# you add controls here
control 'tmp-1.0' do                        # A unique ID for this control
  impact 0.7                                # The criticality, if this control fails.
  title 'Create /tmp directory'             # A human-readable title
  desc 'An optional description...'
  describe file('/tmp') do                  # The actual test
    it { should be_directory }
  end
end
```

This example shows two tests. Both tests check for the existence of the `/tmp` directory. The second test provides additional information about the test. Let's break down each component.

- `control` (line 9) is followed by the control's name. Each control in a profile has a unique name.
- `impact` (line 10) measures the relative importance of the test and must be a value between 0.0 and 1.0.
- `title` (line 11) defines the control's purpose.
- `desc` (line 12) provides a more complete description of what the control checks for.
- `describe` (lines 13 — 15) defines the test. Here, the test checks for the existence of the `/tmp` directory.

### 2.3 Describe Block Structure

As with many test frameworks, InSpec code resembles natural language. Here's the format of a describe block.

```ruby
describe <entity> do
  it { <expectation> }
end
```

::: tip Inspec Resources
InSpec uses resources like the `file` resource to aid in control development. These resources can often be used as the `<entity>` in the describe block, where the expectation is checking a requirement of that entity. Find a list of resources [here](https://docs.chef.io/inspec/resources/).
:::