---
index: 6
icon: page
title: 6. Explore InSpec Resources
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

Before we dive into the course we want to take a look into what a resource is.

When writing InSpec code, many resources are available to you.

* You can [explore the InSpec resources](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/) to see which resources are available.
* You can [examine the source code](https://github.com/inspec/inspec/tree/master/lib/inspec/resources) to see what's available. For example, you can see how `file` and other InSpec resources are implemented.

There's also [Resource DSL](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/dsl_resource/), which gives a brief overview of how to write your own resource.



### 6.1. Resource Overview

Resources may be added to profiles in the libraries folder:
```bash
$ tree examples/profile
examples/profile
...
├── libraries
│   └── gordon_config.rb
```


### 6.2. Resource Structure
The smallest possible resource takes this form:

```ruby
class Tiny < Inspec.resource(1)
  name 'tiny'
end
```

Resources are written as a regular Ruby class which inherits from Inspec.resource. The number (1) specifies the version this resource plugin targets. As Chef InSpec evolves, this interface may change and may require a higher version.

The following attributes can be configured:

- name - Identifier of the resource (required)  
- desc - Description of the resource (optional)  
- example - Example usage of the resource (optional)  
- supports - (Chef InSpec 2.0+) Platform restrictions of the resource (optional)  

The following methods are available to the resource:

- inspec - Contains a registry of all other resources to interact with the operating system or target in general.
- skip_resource - A resource may call this method to indicate that requirements aren’t met. All tests that use this resource will be marked as skipped.

The following example shows a full resource using attributes and methods to provide simple access to a configuration file:
```ruby
class GordonConfig < Inspec.resource(1)
  name 'gordon_config'

  # Restrict to only run on the below platforms (if none were given, all OS's supported)
  supports platform_family: 'fedora'
  supports platform: 'centos', release: '6.9'
  # Supports `*` for wildcard matcher in the release
  supports platform: 'centos', release: '7.*'

  desc '
    Resource description ...
  '

  example '
    describe gordon_config do
      its("signal") { should eq "on" }
    end
  '

  # Load the configuration file on initialization
  def initialize(path = nil)
    @path = path || '/etc/gordon.conf'
    @params = SimpleConfig.new( read_content )
  end

  # Expose all parameters of the configuration file.
  def method_missing(name)
    @params[name]
  end

  private

  def read_content
    f = inspec.file(@path)
    # Test if the path exist and that it's a file
    if f.file?
      # Retrieve the file's contents
      f.content
    else
      # If the file doesn't exist, skip all tests that use gordon_config
      raise Inspec::Exceptions::ResourceSkipped, "Can't read config at #{@path}"
    end
  end
end
```

Let's break down each component.

#### 6.2.1. class
The class is where the ruby file is defined.
#### 6.2.2. name
The name is how we will call upon this resource within our controls, in the example above that would be `gordon_config`.
#### 6.2.3. supports
Supports are used to define/restrict the Ruby resource to work in specific ways, as shown in the example above that is used to restrict our class to specific platforms.
#### 6.2.4. desc & examples
desc is used as a simple in code description of the purpose of this resource while the example is to show how the resource can be used in a control.
#### 6.2.5. initialize method
The initialize method is necessary because in inspec controls when we pass a parameter the Ruby class for the resource must have an initialize method to be defined to accept that paraemeter.
#### 6.2.6. functionality methods
These are the methods that perform the actions you require the resource to perform.