---
index: 12
icon: page
title: 12. Exercise - Develop your own resources
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

**Suggested Resources to start on (Simple):**  
  - Docker
    - `id` retrieves container id
    - `image` retrieves image name
    - `repo` retrieves the repo
    - `tag` retrieves the tag
    - `ports` retrieves the ports
    - `command` retrieves command
  - Git
    - `branches` checks if branch exists
    - `current_branch` retrieves current branch
    - `last_commit` retrieves last commit from log
    - `git_log` retrieve log of all commits
    - `tag` retrieve tag for repo

**Suggested Resources to start on (Medium):**  
  - File resource
    - `owner` tests if the owner of the file matches the specified value.
    - `group` tests if the group to which a file belongs matches the specified value.
    - `size` tests if a file’s size matches, is greater than, or is less than the specified value. 
    - `contents` tests if contents in the file match the value specified in a regular expression.
    - `path` retrieves path to file
  - Directory resource
    - `owner` tests if the owner of the file matches the specified value.
    - `group` tests if the group to which a file belongs matches the specified value.
    - `size` tests if a file’s size matches, is greater than, or is less than the specified value. 
    - `contents` tests if contents in the file match the value specified in a regular expression.
    - `path` retrieves path to directory
  - Users
    - `exist` tests if the named user exists
    - `gid` tests the group identifier
    - `group` tests the group to which the user belongs
    - `groups` tests two (or more) groups to which the user belongs
    - `home` tests the home directory path for the user
    - `maxdays` tests the maximum number of days between password changes
    - `mindays` tests the minimum number of days between password changes
    - `shell` tests the path to the default shell for the user
    - `uid` tests the user identifier
    - `warndays` tests the number of days a user is warned before a password must be changed
  - etc host allow/deny
    - `daemon` daemon returns a string containing the daemon that is allowed in the rule.
    - `client_list` client_list returns a 2d string array where each entry contains the clients specified for the rule.
    - `options` options returns a 2d string array where each entry contains any options specified for the rule.

**Suggested Resources to start on (Hard):**  
  - etc shadow
    - `users` A list of strings, representing the usernames matched by the filter
    - `passwords` A list of strings, representing the encrypted password strings for entries matched by the where filter. Each string may not be an encrypted password, but rather a * or similar which indicates that direct logins are not allowed.
    - `last_changes` A list of integers, indicating the number of days since Jan 1 1970 since the password for each matching entry was changed.
    - `min_days` A list of integers reflecting the minimum number of days a password must exist, before it may be changed, for the users that matched the filter.
    - `max_days` A list of integers reflecting the maximum number of days after which the password must be changed for each user matching the filter.
    - `warn_days` A list of integers reflecting the number of days a user is warned about an expiring password for each user matching the filter.
    - `inactive_days` A list of integers reflecting the number of days a user must be inactive before the user account is disabled for each user matching the filter.
    - `expiry_dates` A list of integers reflecting the number of days since Jan 1 1970 that a user account has been disabled, for each user matching the filter. Value is nil if the account has not expired.
    - `count` The count property tests the number of records that the filter matched.
  - etc fstab
    - `device_name` is the name associated with the device.
    - `mount_point` is the directory at which the file system is configured to be mounted.
    - `file_system_type` is the type of file system of the device or partition.
    - `mount_options` is the options for the device or partition.
    - `dump_options` is a number used by dump to decide if a file system should be backed up.
    - `file_system_options` is a number that specifies the order the file system should be checked.
  - Tomcat server conf reader
    - `parse_conf` parse the conf file
    - `fetch_connectors` retrieves keys `port`, `protocol`, `timeout`, `redirect`, `sslprotocol`, `scheme`, `sslenable`, `clientauth`, `secure`
