---
title: 12. Next Steps
author: Emily
outline:
   [2, 5]
---

## Next Steps

### Take the Class Survey

Please take our brief [survey](https://forms.office.com/g/W2xtcV2frW) to provide feedback and help us improve the class.

### Save Your Work on GitHub

To save your work in your remote repository on GitHub, use Git commands. You can reference a [Git cheat sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf) or check out [this Git tutorial](https://learngitbranching.js.org/).

### Reference Other Class Content

This class is part of a set of security automation content offered by the MITRE SAF(c) team. If you found this content interesting and want to learn more, we encourage you to explore the User Class or Beginner Security Automation Developer Class, as shown in the table of contents on the left.

### Check Out the Rest of MITRE SAF(c)'s Content

MITRE SAF(c) offers a large collection of tools and techniques for security automation beyond those discussed in this class. You can find utilities and libraries to support any step of the software development lifecycle by browsing our offerings at [saf.mitre.org](https://saf.mitre.org). Note that everything offered by MITRE SAF(c) is open-source and available free of charge. You can also reference all the resources listed from the class on the [Resources Page](../../resources/README.md).

### Contact Us

The MITRE SAF(c) team can be contacted at [saf@groups.mitre.org](mailto:saf@groups.mitre.org). We support U.S. government sponsors in developing new tools for the Framework and implementing existing ones in DevSecOps pipelines. If you have any questions about how you can use the content from this class in your own environment, we'd be happy to help.
