---
index: 6
icon: page
title: 6. Running InSpec - GitHub Example
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## 6. Example running an InSpec profile directly from Github

### 6.1. Running baseline straight from Github/Chef Supermarket

In this module, we use NGINX for learning purposes. If you're interested in NGINX specifically, you may be interested in the [MITRE nginx-baseline](https://github.com/mitre/nginx-baseline) profile on GitHub. Alternatively, you may also check out the [DevSec Nginx Baseline](https://supermarket.chef.io/tools/nginx-baseline) profile on Chef Supermarket. These profiles implements many of the tests you wrote in this module.

To execute the GitHub profile on your target system, run this `inspec exec` command.

`$ inspec exec https://github.com/dev-sec/nginx-baseline -t docker://nginx`

To execute the Chef Supermarket profile on your target system, run this `inspec supermarket exec` command.

```
$ inspec supermarket exec dev-sec/nginx-baseline -t docker://nginx
  [2018-05-03T03:07:51+00:00] WARN: URL target https://github.com/dev-sec/nginx-baseline transformed to https://github.com/dev-sec/nginx-baseline/archive/master.tar.gz. Consider using the git fetcher

  Profile: DevSec Nginx Baseline (nginx-baseline)
  Version: 2.1.0
  Target:  docker://nginx

    ...
    ×  nginx-02: Check NGINX config file owner, group and permissions. (1 failed)
       ...
       ×  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be readable by others
       expected File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf not to be readable by others
       ...
       ↺  nginx-15: Content-Security-Policy
          ↺  Can't find file "/etc/nginx/conf.d/90.hardening.conf"
       ↺  nginx-16: Set cookie with HttpOnly and Secure flag
          ↺  Can't find file "/etc/nginx/conf.d/90.hardening.conf"


     Profile Summary: 2 successful controls, 7 control failures, 7 controls skipped
     Test Summary: 10 successful, 13 failures, 10 skipped
```

You see that many of the tests pass, while others fail and may require investigation.

You may want to extend the `nginx-baseline` with your own custom requirements. To do that, you might use what's called a _wrapper profile_. You can check out [Create a custom InSpec profile](https://learn.chef.io/modules/create-a-custom-profile#/) for a more complete example.








### 6.2. Viewing and Analyzing Results

InSpec allows you to output your test results to one or more reporters. You can configure the reporter(s) using either the --json-config option or the --reporter option. While you can configure multiple reporters to write to different files, only one reporter can output to the screen(stdout).

```
$ inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t ssh://TARGET_USERNAME:TARGET_PASSWORD@TARGET_IP --reporter cli json:baseline_output.json
```

#### 6.2.1. Syntax

You can specify one or more reporters using the --reporter cli flag. You can also specify a output by appending a path separated by a colon.

Output json to screen.

```
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter json
or
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter json:-
```

Output yaml to screen

```
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter yaml
or
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter yaml:-
```

Output cli to screen and write json to a file.

`inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter cli json:/tmp/output.json`

Output nothing to screen and write junit and html to a file.

`inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter junit:/tmp/junit.xml html:www/index.html`

Output json to screen and write to a file. Write junit to a file.

`inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter json junit:/tmp/junit.xml | tee out.json`

If you wish to pass the profiles directly after specifying the reporters you will need to use the end of options flag --.

`inspec exec --reporter json junit:/tmp/junit.xml -- profile1 profile2`

Output cli to screen and write json to a file.

```json
{
  "reporter": {
    "cli": {
      "stdout": true
    },
    "json": {
      "file": "/tmp/output.json",
      "stdout": false
    }
  }
}
```

#### 6.2.2. Supported Reporters

The following are the current supported reporters:

- cli
- json
- json-min
- yaml
- documentation
- junit
- progress
- json-rspec
- html

You can read more about [InSpec Reporters](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/reporters/) on the documentation page.

#### 6.2.3. Putting it all together

The following command will run the nginx baseline profile from github and use the reporter to output a json, you will need this for the next step loading it into heimdall:

`$ inspec exec https://github.com/dev-sec/nginx-baseline -t ssh://TARGET_USERNAME:TARGET_PASSWORD@TARGET_IP --reporter cli json:baseline_output.json`

