---
index: 12
icon: page
title: 12. Viewing and Analyzing Results
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## 5. Viewing and Analyzing Results

InSpec allows you to output your test results to one or more reporters. You can configure the reporter(s) using either the --json-config option or the --reporter option. While you can configure multiple reporters to write to different files, only one reporter can output to the screen(stdout).

```
$ inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t ssh://TARGET_USERNAME:TARGET_PASSWORD@TARGET_IP --reporter cli json:baseline_output.json
```

### 5.1. Syntax

You can specify one or more reporters using the --reporter cli flag. You can also specify a output by appending a path separated by a colon.

Output json to screen.

```
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter json
or
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter json:-
```

Output yaml to screen

```
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter yaml
or
inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter yaml:-
```

Output cli to screen and write json to a file.

`inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter cli json:/tmp/output.json`

Output nothing to screen and write junit and html to a file.

`inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter junit:/tmp/junit.xml html:www/index.html`

Output json to screen and write to a file. Write junit to a file.

`inspec exec /root/my_nginx --reporter json junit:/tmp/junit.xml | tee out.json`

If you wish to pass the profiles directly after specifying the reporters you will need to use the end of options flag --.

`inspec exec --reporter json junit:/tmp/junit.xml -- profile1 profile2`

Output cli to screen and write json to a file.

```json
{
  "reporter": {
    "cli": {
      "stdout": true
    },
    "json": {
      "file": "/tmp/output.json",
      "stdout": false
    }
  }
}
```

### 5.2. Supported Reporters

The following are the current supported reporters:

- cli
- json
- json-min
- yaml
- documentation
- junit
- progress
- json-rspec
- html

You can read more about [InSpec Reporters](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/reporters/) on the documentation page.

### 5.3. Putting it all together

The following command will run the nginx baseline profile from github and use the reporter to output a json, you will need this for the next step loading it into heimdall:

`$ inspec exec https://github.com/dev-sec/nginx-baseline -t ssh://TARGET_USERNAME:TARGET_PASSWORD@TARGET_IP --reporter cli json:baseline_output.json`

