---
order: 12
next: 13.md
title: Creating a `Patch Update`
author: Aaron Lippold
---

## The `Patch Update` Process

A patch update involves making minor changes to a profile to fix issues or improve functionality. Here's a step-by-step guide:

1. **Report the Issue:** Open an issue on our project, detailing the problem and providing examples. Do this on [our issues page](https://github.com/mitre/redhat-enterprise-linux-8-stig-baseline/issues).
2. **Fork and Branch:** Fork the repository on GitHub, then create a branch off the `tagged` patch release you're targeting for the update.
3. **Set Up Testing Suites:** In your forked branch, set up the AWS and Docker testing suites.
4. **Make Updates:** Update the control, `inspec.yml` inputs, thresholds, etc. Don't worry about the InSpec version in the `inspec.yml` - the release process handles that.
5. **Test Your Updates Locally:** Test your updates on all `vanilla` and `hardened` variants of the `known bad` and `known good` states of the `AWS EC2` and `Docker` test targets. Also, test your controls outside perfect conditions to ensure they handle non-optimal target environments. Verify that your update considers the `container`, `virtual machine`, and `1U machine` testing context of applicability.
6. **Lint Your Updates:** Use the `bundle exec rake lint` and `bundle exec rake lint:autocorrect` commands from the test suite to lint your updates.
7. **Commit Your Updates:** After testing and linting, commit your updates to your branch. Include `Fixes #ISSUE` in your commit messages to automatically close the issue when your PR is merged.
8. **Open a PR:** Open a PR on the project repository from your fork.
9. **Check Test Suite:** Ensure the GitHub Action test suite on the project side passes. You can check this at [our actions page](https://github.com/mitre/redhat-enterprise-linux-8-stig-baseline/actions).
