---
order: 14
next: 15.md
title: Creating a `Major Version Update`
author: Aaron Lippold
---

## The `Major Version Update` Process

A `Major Version Update` involves transitioning to a new STIG Benchmark, which introduces a new Rule ID index. This process is more complex than a `Release Update` due to the need for aligning old requirements (Rule IDs) with the new ones.

For example, when transitioning from RedHat Enterprise Linux 8 v1R12 to Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 V1R1, the alignment of InSpec tests to the new requirements must be `fuzzy matched`. This involves using common identifiers such as `SRG ID`, `CCIs`, and, if necessary, the `title` and `descriptions`.

This is crucial when a single requirement from the old benchmark is split into multiple requirements in the new benchmark, although this is usually a rare occurrence.

We use a similar process in our [MITRE Vulcan](https://vulcan.mitre.org) to align 'Related Controls' in your Vulcan project to existing published STIG documents. However, the `Delta` tool currently requires manual intervention, and improvements are needed to automate this process.

The good news is that **these improvements are within reach**. We can leverage the existing work from `Vulcan` and hopefully soon incorporate these improvements into the SAF `Delta` tool as a direct function.

Once the 'old controls' and 'new controls' are aligned across 'Rule IDs', you can migrate the InSpec / Ruby code into their respective places.

Then, you follow the same setup, CI/CD organization, and control update process as in the `Release Update` process and hopfully finding that the actual InSpec code from the previous benchmark is very close to the needed InSpec code for the same 'requirement' in the new Benchmark.
