---
order: 21
next: 22.md
title: Test Kitchen - `kitchen.yml` File
author: Aaron Lippold
---

## Understanding the `kitchen.yml` File

The [`kitchen.yml`](./kitchen.yml) file is the primary configuration file for Test Kitchen. It outlines the shared configuration for all your testing environments, platforms, and the testing framework to be used.

Each of the subsequent kitchen files will inherit the shared settings from this file automatlly and merge them with the setting in the child kitchen file.

## Example `kitchen.yml` file

```yaml
---
verifier:
  name: inspec
  sudo: true
  reporter:
    - cli
    - json:spec/results/%{platform}_%{suite}.json
  inspec_tests:
    - name: RedHat 8 STIG v1r12
      path: .
  input_files:
    - kitchen.inputs.yml
  <% if ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>
  controls:
    - "<%= ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>"
  <% end %>
  load_plugins: true

suites:
  - name: vanilla
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-vanilla.yml
  - name: hardened
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-hardened.yml
```

# Breakdown of the `kitchen.yml` file:

```yaml
verifier:
  name: inspec
  sudo: true
  reporter:
    - cli
    - json:spec/results/%{platform}_%{suite}.json
  inspec_tests:
    - name: RedHat 8 STIG v1r12
      path: .
  input_files:
    - kitchen.inputs.yml
  <% if ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>
  controls:
    - "<%= ENV['INSPEC_CONTROL'] %>"
  <% end %>
  load_plugins: true
```

This first section configures the verifier, which is the tool that checks if your system is in the desired state. Here, it's using InSpec.

- `sudo: true` means that InSpec will run with sudo privileges.
- `reporter` specifies the formats in which the test results will be reported. Here, it's set to report in the command-line interface (`cli`) and in a JSON file (`json:spec/results/%{platform}_%{suite}.json`).
- `inspec_tests` specifies the InSpec profiles to run. Here, it's running the "RedHat 8 STIG v1r12" profile located in the current directory (`path: .`).
- `input_files` specifies files that contain input variables for the InSpec profile. Here, it's using the `kitchen.inputs.yml` file.
- The `controls` section is dynamically set based on the `INSPEC_CONTROL` environment variable. If the variable is set, only the specified control will be run.
- `load_plugins: true` means that InSpec will load any available plugins.

```yaml
suites:
  - name: vanilla
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-vanilla.yml
  - name: hardened
    provisioner:
      playbook: spec/ansible/roles/ansible-role-rhel-hardened.yml
```

This section defines the test suites. Each suite represents a different configuration to test.

- Each suite has a `name` and a `provisioner`.
- The `provisioner` section specifies the Ansible playbook to use for the suite. Here, it's using the `ansible-role-rhel-vanilla.yml` playbook for the "vanilla" suite and the `ansible-role-rhel-hardened.yml` playbook for the "hardened" suite.

## Environment Variables in `kitchen.yml`

- `INSPEC_CONTROL`: This variable allows you to specify a single control to run during the `bundle exec kitchen verify` phase. This is particularly useful for testing or debugging a specific requirement.

# Recap on Kitchen Stages

The workflow of Test Kitchen involves the following steps:

1. **Create:** Test Kitchen uses the driver to create an instance of the platform.
2. **Converge:** Test Kitchen uses the provisioner to apply the infrastructure code to the instance. In this case, it's using Ansible playbooks.
3. **Verify:** Test Kitchen uses the verifier to check if the instance is in the desired state.
4. **Destroy:** Test Kitchen uses the driver to destroy the instance after testing. This is not shown in your file.