---
order: 29
title: Terms & Definitions
author: Aaron Lippold
---

## Terms & Definitions

- **Baseline**: This refers to a set of relevant security controls, such as NIST 800-53 controls or Center for Internet Security Controls. These controls offer high-level security best practices, grouped into common areas of concern.
- **Benchmark**: This is a set of security controls tailored to a specific type of application or product. These controls are typically categorized into 'high', 'medium', and 'low' levels based on their impact on Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (C.I.A).
- **[Control Correlation Identifier](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/cci/) (CCI)**: The Control Correlation Identifier provides a standard identifier and description for each individual, actionable statement that comprises an Information Assurance (IA) control or best practice. For example: 'CCI-000366'.
- **Group Title (gtitle)**: This is essentially the SRG ID but is a legacy value from the old Vulnerability Management System. For example: 'SRG-OS-000480-GPOS-00227'.
- **Major Version Update**: These updates occur when a software vendor releases a new major version of their product, resulting in a new major version of the corresponding STIG. For example, Red Hat releasing version 9 of Red Hat Enterprise Linux or Microsoft releasing a new major version of Windows.
- **Patch Update**: These are regular updates that address edge cases in testing for one or more benchmark requirements or improvements to the InSpec code for a requirement. These updates result in a new patch release of the benchmark, e.g., `v1.12.4` to `v1.12.5`.
- **Profile**: This is a set of tests representing a STIG or a CIS Benchmark. These tests automate the validation of a system against that STIG or CIS Benchmark.
- **Release Update**: These are updates that occur when the STIG Benchmark owner releases an updated version of the STIG, e.g., Red Hat Enterprise Linux V1R12 to V1R13.
- **Rule ID (rid)**: The Rule ID has two parts separated by the `r` in the string—for example, 'SV-230221' and 'r858734_rule'. The first part remains unique within the major version of a benchmark document, while the latter part is updated each time the rule is updated with each release of the benchmark. For example: 'SV-230221r858734_rule'.
- **Security Requirements Guide (SRG)**: SRG documents provide generalized security guidance in XCCDF format that applies to a class of software products such as web servers, operating systems, application servers, or databases. You can find these at the DISA STIG [Document Library](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/).
- **Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG)**: This is a set of specific technical actions required to establish a certain security posture for a software product. It is based on the relevant Security Requirements Guide that applies to the product's software class and function, such as operating systems, web servers, or databases. Archives are available at the DISA STIG [Document Library](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/).
- **SRG_ID**: This is the unique identifier of the SRG requirement. These indexes, like the STIG Rule IDs, also show their parent-child relationship. For example: 'SRG-OS-000480-GPOS-00227'.
- **STIG ID (stig_id)**: Many testing and result analysis tools use this ID—versus the Rule ID—to display each of the individual results of a benchmark validation run. For example: 'RHEL-08-010000'. Examples include DISA STIG Viewer, Nessus Audit Scans, and the OpenSCAP client.
- **XCCDF Benchmark**: XCCDF (Extensible Configuration Checklist Description Format) is a standard developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the Department of Defense (DoD) to provide a machine-readable XML format for creating security guidance documents and Security Technical Implementation Guides. Archives are available at the DISA STIG [Document Library](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/).
