---
index: 2
title: 2. What is security guidance?
author: Will Dower
headerDepth: 3
---

## Security Guidance

Before we go further, let's discuss what we mean by "security guidance" and some of its characteristics that matter to us as security (and automation!) practitioners.

**Security guidance** is human-readable content which defines what constitutes a secure configuration for a software component or category of components. It answers the important question that all developers and engineers ask when they want to secure their software -- "What counts as 'secure' for my system in the first place?"

Most software projects will (or at least *should*) align themselves to a particular source for security guidance and follow it as a baseline that answers this question. For example, many commercial companies (and even some civilian government agencies) use the Center for Internet Security Benchmarks (CIS Benchmarks) as their baseline, while software deployed by the US Department of Defense is required to comply with the Defense Information Systems Agency's Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs), broadly speaking.

This course will be giving heavy focus to STIGs, since Vulcan was originally created to address pain points in the authorship process for STIG documents (which we will describe in detail a little later). However, the principles behind what makes a quality STIG can be applied to security guidance of all kinds, and we hope you can take the lessons here and apply them to whatever guidance you create for your software.

### Organizational Policy vs. Baselines

Many organizations that use popular secrity guidance documents as their baselines have their own specific organizational security policies which conflict with that baseline. For example, let's say that the STIG for the Red Hat 8 operating system specifies that users should have, at minimum, 15 characters in their passwords, but your company's security policy requires a minimum of 20.

Consequently, many government agencies use baseline security guidance as templates to create their own tailored content for in-house use.

::: tip Automating Overlay Validation
You can check out the [Beginner Security Automation Developer Class](https://mitre.github.io/saf-training/courses/beginner/10.html#profile-dependencies-overlays) for examples of how to write automated validation code with InSpec that is tailored from a baseline.
:::

### Finding Security Guidance Documentation Baselines

Commonly-used security guidance is often available on the open Internet.

- CIS publishes its popular [Benchmarks](https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks) for free with registration.
- DISA publishes all STIGs (and all the rest of its security documentation materials) for free on the [DoD Cyber Exchange](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/) public web page.

Your first question when planning for securing your software component should always be "is there already perfectly-good guidance documentation available for it?"

### What Makes for Good Security Guidance?

This class intends to teach you how to create security guidance documentation for use as a blueprint for building secure software. We want to write **clear** and **easy-to-implement** guidance. We want to write guidance that considers **all common deployment strategies** for the software component we are deploying -- does my piece of software meaningfully change if it is deployed in the cloud as opposed to on-prem? What happens if I deploy it as a container?

We will also discuss the importance of "Policy as Code," and keeping a tight binding between your human-readable security guidance and your automation code that validates it.

With all that out of the way, let's talk about STIGs, one of the most commonly used sources of security guidance used in the US Government.

