---
order: 01
next: 02.md
title: InSpec Delta - Laying the Ground for a Clean Release Branch
shortTitle: Delta - Overview
author: Daniel Medina, George Dias
---

## InSpec Delta

### Overview

Inspec Delta is a SAF CLI functionality that automates and facilitates the process of changing inspec profile baselines.

::: note
When referring to inspec profiles, there are distinctions:
Inspec profile repository: contains the controls, code, etc.
Inspec profile file: JSON formatted file containing profile summary, used as input for these delta process.
:::

The SAF CLI Delta process can include two distinct processes:
1. Updates Controls for Delta (`update_controls4delta`)
2. Delta (`delta`)

::: warning
This process has been tested using DISA XCCDF STIGs Guidance files only
:::

### Update Controls for Delta

The `update_controls4delta` process is used to prepare profile controls from one [SRG](#glossary-of-terms) or [STIG](#glossary-of-terms) baseline to another. The controls are updated based on guidance based on guidance provided by the appropriate Extendible Configuration Checklist Description Format ([XCCDF](#glossary-of-terms)).

The `update_controls4delta` process may be the only command needed to facilitate changes to Inspec profile baselines (delta process), refer to [use cases for running delta](./02.html#use-cases-for-running-delta).

The process of preparing controls from one baseline to another (baseline X to Y) consists of:

1. The directory where baseline X controls are located is provided.
2. An InSpec json formatted file containing all baseline X controls is provided or generated.
    a - The json file is generated using the [inspec or cinc-auditor] json CLI command
3. A XCCDF file containing the new baseline Y guidance is provided. The file is obtained from the appropriate site.
    a - The baseline Y XCCDF lists all controls appropriate for the provided baseline. It also includes (most often) a field (legacy) where it indicates the control's previous name(s). The process uses this field to map old control names to the new controls.
    b - If there is no mapping found, then the `delta` process must be invoked to convert the baselines ([see use cases](./02.html#use-cases-for-running-delta))

You can invoke the command as such:
```shell
saf generate update_controls4delta -X ./baseline_Y_xccdf_guidance_file.xml -J baseline_X_summary.json -c baseline_X_controls_directory
```

Additional capabilities can be obtained using the `--help` flag on the `update_controls4delta` command as such:
```shell
saf generate update_controls4delta --help
```

The renaming of controls can be done either using the group ID (use `--help` for additional info) or the legacy field contained within the XCCDF. 

### Delta

If the delta between baseline X and Y does not encompass tracability, the update_controls4delta command will not identify any profiles and will therefore not update any controls to the new baseline (no mapping). 

The `delta` process extends the capabilities of the `update_controls4delta` process by providing the following functionalities:

1. Creates new controls found in updated guidances
2. Fuzzy matching capability (optional)
    a - Maps controls based on similarity and not control IDs
    b - For controls which a match is found, the describe block (code) within the old control is mapped over to the new control
3. Detailed logging
    a - report file (.md), mapping statistics (CliProcessOutput.log)

You can invoke the command as such:
```shell
saf generate delta -X ./baseline_Y_xccdf_guidance_file.xml -J baseline_X_summary.json -o new_baseline_Y_controls_directory -M -c baseline_X_controls_directory
```
::: tip
The `-M` and `-c` flags can be removed if not using fuzzy matching feature.
:::

Additional capabilities can be obtained using the `--help` flag on the `delta` command as such:
```shell
saf generate delta --help
```

### Glossary of Terms

|Term |Definition|
|------|-----------|
|XCCDF| The XCCDF document is an XML formatted file that containing the updated structured collection of security configuration rules for a specific target system. |
|SRG| Security Requirements Guides are documents that provide detailed security requirements for various technologies, applications,databases, and operating systems. SRGs offer guidance on how to configure and secure different technologies to meet specific security standards. |
|STIG|Security Technical Implementation Guides are configuration standards that provide technical guidance for securing software, networks, servers, and computers. They are based on Department of Defense (DoD) policy and security controls. |