---
order: 02
previous: 01.md
next: 03.md
title: InSpec Delta Process- Use Cases
shortTitle: Delta - Use Cases
author: Daniel Medina, George Dias
---

## Use Cases for Running Delta

There are several use cases for conducting the delta process. 

[Use Case 1](#use-case-1) - Check and update control IDs based on new guidance (run update controls)
[Use Case 2](#use-case-2) - Update control IDs and metadata (run update controls)
[Use Case 3](#use-case-3) - Update control IDs based on group ID (run update controls)
[Use Case 4](#use-case-4) - No mappings were found using update controls (run Delta with fuzzy matching)
[Use Case 5](#use-case-5) - Generate stubs for new controls found in XCCDF (run Delta w/o fuzzy matching)

### Use Case 1
Updated guidances sometimes modify the control identification (IDs) values of a given control.
To make these modification from baseline X to baseline Y the update controls process with the
provided XCCDF guidance. The process checks if the new guidance changes the control numbers
and updates them if necessary.

Process: Run `update_controls4delta`



### Use Case 2
Like Use Case 1 where the IDs are changed, the new controls identified in baseline Y may have
changed the control metadata (impact value, descriptions, etc). Running the update controls makes
use of baseline Y metadata and updates the control with the describe block (code) from baseline X.

Process: Run `update_controls4delta`

### Use Case 3
If there isn't any mapping between baseline X and Y using the default rule identification (rule Id)
for the control, it may be necessary to index the controls based on controls group identifications
(group Id). Running the update controls with the group Id may be required to provide a
mapping from baseline X to Y.

Process: Run `update_controls4delta`

### Use Case 4
Running update controls may result in no controls being updated / no mappings were found from
baseline X to baseline Y. This could be due to there being too many revisions / releases between
the two baselines creating no way to  map between them. In this case, we have no alternative
but to use Delta with fuzzy matching.

Process: Run `delta`

### Use Case 5
Most often the new guidances contain new controls that weren't previously defined, in this
case running the delta process generates the control stubs with all metadata, minus the
describe block (code) content.

Process: Run `delta`

### Use Case 6
The `delta` process is also capable of updating control metadata when the control IDs haven't been renamed. However, unlike `update_controls4delta`, the delta process will produce several artifacts:

Process: Run `delta`

#### Report Markdown File (.md)

Specified by the report flag (`-r`)

#### delta.json

#### CLIProcessOutput.log
Outputted to the directory where the delta process is being executed. 