---
order: 03
next: 04.md
title: 3. Delta Process CLI Tools
author: Daniel Medina, George Dias
---

## 3.1 CLI Tools

The delta process consists of either or both of the following commands:
1. Updates Controls for Delta (`update_controls4delta`)
2. Delta (`delta`)

::: note About Inspec Profiles
When referring to inspec profiles, there are distinctions:
Inspec profile repository: contains the controls, code, etc.
Inspec profile file: JSON formatted file containing profile summary, used as input for these delta process.
:::

### 3.2 Update Controls for Delta

The `update_controls4delta` process is used to prepare profile controls from one [SRG](#glossary-of-terms) or [STIG](#glossary-of-terms) baseline to another. The controls are updated based on guidance based on guidance provided by the appropriate Extendible Configuration Checklist Description Format ([XCCDF](#glossary-of-terms)).

update_controls4delta specifically updates existing controls within an inspec profile repository.

The `update_controls4delta` process may be the only command needed to facilitate changes to Inspec profile baselines (delta process), refer to [use cases for running delta](./03.html#use-cases-for-running-delta).

The process of preparing controls from one baseline to another (baseline X to Y) consists of:

1. The directory where baseline X controls are located is provided.
3. An InSpec json formatted file containing all baseline X controls is provided or generated.
    a - The json file is generated using the [inspec or cinc-auditor] json CLI command
3. A XCCDF file containing the new baseline Y guidance is provided. The file is obtained from the appropriate site.
    a - The baseline Y XCCDF lists all controls appropriate for the provided baseline. It also includes (most often) a field (legacy) where it indicates the control's previous name(s). The process uses this field to map old control names to the new controls.
    b - If there is no mapping found, then the `delta` process must be invoked to convert the baselines ([see use cases](./03.html#use-cases-for-running-delta))

You can invoke the command as such:
```
saf generate update_controls4delta -X ./baseline_Y_xccdf_guidance_file.xml -J baseline_X_summary.json -c baseline_X_controls_directory
```

Additional capabilities can be obtained using the `--help` flag on the `update_controls4delta` command as such:
```
saf generate update_controls4delta --help
```

The renaming of controls can be done either using the group ID (use `--help` for additional info) or the legacy field contained within the XCCDF. 

If there is no way to trace controls in baseline X to its corresponding controls in baseline Y, then `update_controls4delta` will not update any controls (no mapping).

### 3.3 Delta

The `delta` process extends the capabilities of the `update_controls4delta` process by providing the following functionalities:

1. Creates new controls found in updated guidances
2. Fuzzy matching capability (optional)
    a - Maps controls based on similarity and not control IDs
    b - For controls which a match is found, the describe block (code) within the old control is mapped over to the new control
3. Detailed logging
    a - report file (.md), mapping statistics (CliProcessOutput.log)
<br>

You can invoke the command as such:
```
saf generate delta -X ./baseline_Y_xccdf_guidance_file.xml -J baseline_X_summary.json -o new_baseline_Y_controls_directory -M -c baseline_X_controls_directory
```
<br>

::: tip Optional Fuzzy Matching Flags
The `-M` and `-c` flags can be removed if not using fuzzy matching feature.
:::

Additional capabilities can be obtained using the `--help` flag on the `delta` command as such:
```
saf generate delta --help
```

For more information on these commands, refer to the following documentation:

- [update_controls4delta](https://saf-cli.mitre.org/#delta-supporting-options)
- [saf generate delta](https://saf-cli.mitre.org/#delta)
<br>

::: warning Delta Process Limitations
This process has been tested using DISA XCCDF STIG Benchmark Guidances only.
:::
