---
order: 3
next: 04.md
title: 3. Studying an InSpec Profile - NGINX Example
author: Aaron Lippold
---

## Studying an InSpec profile

The best way to learn how an InSpec profile works is to write our own example. Let's start out with a simple profile and start adding more tests to make it useful!

## Our Use Case

For the purposes of this class, we will assume the role of an infrastructure engineer who is responsible for the security of a NGINX webserver, which is running in a Docker container named `nginx`. We want a way to automate the process of validating the security of our webserver, and we have settled on InSpec as our assessment tool of choice. We have installed InSpec on the host machine for our NGINX container (your GitHub Codespace virtual machine).

::: note What if I don't know anything about NGINX or webservers?
Don't worry. This class does not expect you to be an expert in webserver administration. The concepts we introduce here are relevant to any category of software, from end user applications all the way down to the operating system running your apps.
:::

### Our Requirements

Let's say that we are attempting to validate that our NGINX webserver complies with the following simple list of requirements.

```sh
1. NGINX should be installed as version 1.27.0 or later.
2. The following NGINX modules should be installed:
   * `http_ssl`
   * `stream_ssl`
   * `mail_ssl`
3. The NGINX configuration file - `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`- should exist as a file.
4. The NGINX configuration file should:
   * be owned by the `root` user and group.
   * not be readable, writeable, or executable by others.
5. The NGINX shell access should be restricted to admin users.
```

### Creating the profile

We'll start by creating a profile that will contain the tests we want to run against NGINX.

At your terminal, from your preferred directory, type:

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab Command

```bash
inspec init profile my_nginx
```

@tab Expected Output

```bash
 ─────────────────────────── InSpec Code Generator ─────────────────────────── 

Creating new profile at /workspaces/saf-training-lab-environment/my_nginx
 • Creating file inspec.yml
 • Creating directory /workspaces/saf-training-lab-environment/my_nginx/controls
 • Creating file controls/example.rb
 • Creating file README.md
```
:::

::: note `my_nginx_answer_key`
You may notice that you already have a folder named `my_nginx_answer_key` in your lab system environment that looks suspiciously like a complete InSpec profile for testing NGINX.

That profile is what we will be constructing in the next few sections. Feel free to reference it if you want to see what your code is supposed to look like when we are done. 
:::

### Understanding the profile structure

Let's take a look at how the profile is structured. We'll start with how a profile's files are structured and then move to what makes up an InSpec control.

First, run `tree` from the directory that contains your `my_nginx` profile to take a look inside.

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab Command

```sh
tree my_nginx
```
@tab Expected Output
```
my_nginx
├── README.md
├── controls
│   └── example.rb
└── inspec.yml
```
:::

Here's the role of each component.

- `README.md` provides documentation about the profile, including what it covers and how to run it.
- The `controls` directory contains files that define the actual tests.
- `inspec.yml` provides metadata about the profile. Metadata includes the profile's human-friendly description, author, version, and what parameters we can pass to the profile at runtime.
- You may optionally have a `libraries` directory. The `libraries` directory contains resource extensions. A resource extension enables you to [define your own resource types](https://docs.chef.io/inspec/profiles/custom_resources/). The [Advanced Security Automation Developer Class](../advanced/README.md) will discuss in-depth how to define your own custom resources.

### Understand a control's structure

Let's take a look at the default control file, `controls/example.rb`.

```ruby
# copyright: 2018, The Authors

title 'sample section'

# you can also use plain tests
describe file('/tmp') do
  it { should be_directory }
end

# you add controls here
control 'tmp-1.0' do                        # A unique ID for this control
  impact 0.7                                # The criticality, if this control fails.
  title 'Create /tmp directory'             # A human-readable title
  desc 'An optional description...'
  describe file('/tmp') do                  # The actual test
    it { should be_directory }
  end
end
```

This example shows two tests. Both tests check for the existence of the `/tmp` directory. The second test provides additional information about the test. Let's break down each component.

- `control` (line 11) is followed by the control's name. Each control in a profile must have a unique control identifier.
- `impact` (line 12) measures the relative importance of the test and must be a value between 0.0 and 1.0.
- `title` (line 13) defines the control's purpose.
- `desc` (line 14) provides a more complete description of what the control checks for.
- `describe` (lines 15 — 17) defines the test. Here, the test checks for the existence of the `/tmp` directory.

In Ruby, the `do` and `end` keywords define a `block`. An InSpec control always contains at least one `describe` block. However, a control can contain many `describe` blocks.
::: tip More information on a block in Ruby
[Ruby's block syntax](http://ruby-for-beginners.rubymonstas.org/blocks.html)
:::

### Understand a describe block's structure

As with many test frameworks, InSpec code resembles natural language. Here's the format of a describe block.

```ruby
describe <entity> do
  it { <expectation> }
end
```

An InSpec test has two main components: the subject to examine and the subject's expected state. Here, `<entity>` is the subject you want to examine, for example, a package name, service, file, or network port. The `<expectation>` specifies the desired result or expected state, for example, that a port should be open (or perhaps should not be open.)

Let's take a closer look at the `describe` block in the example.

```ruby
describe file('/tmp') do
  it { should be_directory }
end
```

Because InSpec resembles human-readable language, you might read this test as "/tmp should be a directory." Let's break down each component.

---

#### `file`

[file](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/file/) is an InSpec [resource](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/). Resources are written as Ruby classes to describe a part of the system, providing attributes that are easy to call upon within the InSpec test. For example, the InSpec file resource tests for file attributes, including a file's owner, mode, and permissions. The example examines the /tmp directory.

:::info Note
If you're familiar with Chef, you know that a resource configures one part of the system. InSpec resources are similar.
:::

---

#### `it`

The `it` statement validates one of your resource's features. A `describe` block contains one or more `it` statements. `it` enables you to test the resource itself. You'll also see `its`, which describes some feature of the resource, such as its mode or owner. You'll see examples of both `it` and `its` shortly.

:::warning it vs. its
Important! Just like in English grammar, pay attention to the difference between the thing (it) and the possessive word (its). 

`it` is used to describe an action or the expected behavior of the **subject/resource** in question.
e.g. `it { should exist }`

`its` is used to specify the expectation(s) of **an attribute of the subject/resource**.
e.g. `its('size') { should eq 64 }`
:::

---

#### `should`

`should` describes the expectation. `should` asserts that the condition that follows _should_ be true. Alternatively, `should_not` asserts that the condition that follows _should not_ be true. You'll see examples of both shortly.

---

#### `be_directory`

`be_directory` is an example of a [matcher](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/). A matcher compares a resource's actual value to its expected value. InSpec provides several predefined matchers. The `file` resource provides the `be_directory` matcher.


### Comprehension Check!

Look at the 4 file structures below. Determine which are valid InSpec Profiles that will run the tests!

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab A

```sh
folder_A
├── README.md
├── controls
│   ├── example-control-1.rb
│   ├── example-control-2.rb
│   └── example-control-3.rb
└── inspec.yml

2 directories, 5 files
```

@tab B

```sh
folder_B
├── README.md
├── controls
    ├── example-control-1.rb
    ├── example-control-2.rb
    └── example-control-3.rb

2 directories, 4 files
```

@tab C
```sh
folder_C
├── README.md
├── example-control-1.rb
├── example-control-2.rb
├── example-control-3.rb
└── inspec.yml

1 directories, 5 files
```

@tab D

```sh
folder_D
├── Gemfile
├── README.md
├── controls
│   ├── example-control-1.rb
│   ├── example-control-2.rb
│   └── example-control-3.rb
├── inspec.yml
└── libraries
    └── my_resource.rb

3 directories, 7 files
```

:::

:::details Which of the folders above (A, B, C, and D) are valid InSpec profiles?
A and D are valid InSpec profiles! 

**INVALID PROFILES:**
- **B** is not a profile because it is missing the inspec.yml file!
- **C** is not a profile because it does not have a controls directory! 

**VALID PROFILES:**
- **A** is a profile! 
- **D** is a profile! A profile can have extra things like a Gemfile and a libraries folder as long as it has the controls directory and the inspec.yml file!
:::

:::tip TIP: inspec check
To see if you have a valid InSpec profile, you can run `inspec check <path-to-inspec-profile-folder>`
:::
