---
order: 8
next: 09.md
title: 8. Generating InSpec Results
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## Generating InSpec Results

### Try it out!

InSpec allows you to send your test results to one or more *reporters*, or output formats. The following command outputs results to both the terminal (`cli`) and to a JSON report file (`json:baseline_output.json`).
<!-- 
You can configure the reporter(s) using either the `--json-config` option or the `--reporter` option. While you can configure multiple reporters to write to different files, only one reporter can output to the screen (via stdout). -->

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx -t docker://nginx --reporter cli json:baseline_output.json
```

### Generating good report filenames in practice

When using InSpec in practice, most users aggregate report files from multiple systems over time, so we recommend that you generate reports that specify:

- the target they were run against
- a timestamp

``` sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json:nginx-$(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S").json
```

Here we add a bash `eval` (the `$(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S")`) to our filename when we invoke `inspec exec`. Now we can run tests multiple times with the same command and get a different filename each time.

::: danger
Note that if you save InSpec results to a file (such as with the `json` reporter), and then re-run the same command, you will overwrite the original contents of that file with the more recent results. Be sure that all of your reports have unique names.
:::

### Additional Reporter Examples for Reference

::: details Output JSON to screen

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json
```
@tab Alternative Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json:-
```
:::

::: details Output YAML to screen

::: code-tabs#shell

@tab Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter yaml
```
@tab Alternative Command
```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter yaml:-
```
:::

::: details Output to screen and to a JSON file

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter cli json:tmp/output.json
```
:::

::: details Output only to files - a junit and HTML file

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter junit2:tmp/junit.xml html:www/index.html
```
:::

::: details Output JSON to the terminal and make a junit file

```sh
inspec exec my_nginx --reporter json junit2:tmp/junit.xml | tee out.json
```
:::

<!-- How can you list two profiles? That doesn't make sense to me -->
<!-- ::: tip Flag order
If you wish to pass the profiles directly after specifying the reporters, you will need to use the end of options flag `--`:
```sh
inspec exec --reporter json junit2:tmp/junit.xml -- profile1 profile2
```
::: -->

### Using a configuration file instead of the --reporter flag

InSpec also lets you capture all of these reporter options in a configuration file:

```json
{
  "reporter": {
    "cli": {
      "stdout": true
    },
    "json": {
      "file": "tmp/output.json",
      "stdout": false
    }
  }
}
```
You can read more about this at <https://docs.chef.io/inspec/config/>
### Supported Reporters

The following are supported reporters:

- cli
- json
- json-min
- yaml
- documentation
- junit2
- progress
- progress-bar
- json-rspec
- html2
- automate
- json-automate

You can read more here: <https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/reporters/>

::: details Enhanced Outcomes

InSpec includes the `--enhanced-outcomes` flag to enrich the output format slightly if more detail is needed.

When this flag is passed, the control level status outcomes of the profile execution are `Passed`, `Failed`, `Not Applicable (N/A)`, `Not Reviewed (N/R)`, or `Error (ERR)`.

:::

### Running Profiles from Network Locations

So far, we have been executing InSpec profiles that we have written ourselves and saved to the local machine. InSpec also gives you the ability to execute a profile that lives on the other end of an HTTP/S link or a `.git` link.

``` sh
inspec exec https://github.com/mitre/nginx-stigready-baseline -t docker://nginx
```

::: tip Pulling Profiles from the Network
We suggest that, when possible, you host your profile code on a version control system accessible from the internet (e.g. GitHub). That way, you are always running an up-to-date version of the code.

Note that "an up-to-date version" does not necessarily mean "run the `main` branch of the profile as it exists on GitHub." You can make use of releases in your code repository, and then use the link to a stable release ([GitHub example](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/linking-to-releases)) as your input to `inspec exec`. This conforms to best practices in automation -- avoid running any code that has not been thoroughly vetted as part of an offical release.
:::
::: warning Wait, what if I can't publish to GitHub?
Not everyone can open source their code, or make it available on the open Internet. Your organization or environment may be more suited to using a private code repository (e.g. GitLab or BitBucket) to store profiles. InSpec supports passing authentication tokens as part of profile locations:
``` sh
inspec exec https://API_TOKEN@gitlab.supersecret.com/profiles/inspec_baseline.git
```

See the [exec command docs](https://docs.chef.io/inspec/cli/#exec) for details.
:::

### Practice Running InSpec Using a Profile From GitHub

Let's try running an already-complete profile and generating a report.

The following command will run the SAF Validation Library's NGINX baseline profile from MITRE GitHub, and use the reporter to output a json file. You will need this JSON file for the next section, where we'll load our results into Heimdall:

```sh
inspec exec https://github.com/mitre/nginx-stigready-baseline -t docker://nginx --reporter cli json:nginx-full-baseline-$(date +"%Y-%m-%d-%H-%M-%S").json
```
