---
index: 8
icon: page
title: InSpec Examples
author: Aaron Lippold
headerDepth: 3
---

## Inspec Examples

### rSpec Explicit Subject

Here we have an InSpec test that lists out its current directory. Our original test code looks like this:

```ruby
describe command('ls -al').stdout.strip do
  it { should_not be_empty }
end
```

If we would like to have a more detailed feedback to our user, we can override the standard title of our describe block with a specific message that describes the intent of the test and use the [Explicit Subject](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-core/docs/subject/explicit-subject) to tell inspec what the "subject" is for the test, then, we could refactor the code like this:

```ruby
describe "this is a detailed message" do
  subject { command('ls -al').stdout.strip }
  it{ should_not be_empty }
end
```

### Looping Through Data

The `file` resource is perfect for looking at single files and thier properities, however, it does not look at groups of files. To do that we need to use multiple resources in concert. Let's use the `command` resource to run the `find` command, or it's equivalent for your target OS, and then use the `file` resource. Using multiple resources together is one of the key values InSpec provides, allowing you get get at just the data you need when you need it.

::: warning Avoid Large Sets or 'Check Everyone at the Door' Approaches

For IO intensive (full filesystem, or global scans) or large scale processes, try to be as specific as possible with your searches. Think about using 'negitive logic' vs 'positive logic' - "Find me all the items outside my target set" vs "Look at each item in the set and ensure it has these propertiies". 

This 'find the outsiders' vs 'check everyone at the door' approach can really speed things along. Again, keep your data set as small as possible, don't inspect more then the requirements, well, requires.
 
 :::
 
```ruby
command('find ~/* -type f -maxdepth 0 -xdev').stdout.split.each do |fname|
  describe file(fname) do
    its('owner') { should cmp 'ec2-user' }
  end
end
```

### The `should` vs. `expect` syntax

Users familiar with the rSpec testing framework may know that there are two ways to write test statements: `should` and `expect`. The RSpec community decided that `expect` is the preferred syntax.

InSpec recommends the `should` syntax as it tends to read more easily to those users who are not as technical, however there are times when the `expect` syntax will communicate much more clearly to the end-user.

InSpec will continue to support both methods of writing tests. Consider this file test:

```ruby
describe file('/tmp/test.txt') do
  it { should be_file }
end
```

This can be re-written with expect syntax

```ruby
describe file('/tmp/test.txt') do
  it 'should be a file' do
    expect(subject).to(be_file)
  end
end
```

The output of both of the above examples looks like this:

```sh
File /tmp/test.txt
   ✔  should be a file
```

In addition, you can make use of the `subject keyword` to further control your output if you choose:

```ruby
describe 'test file' do
  subject { file('/tmp/test.txt') }
  it 'should be a file' do
    expect(subject).to(be_file)
  end
end
```

… which will render the following output:

```sh
test file
  ✔  should be a file
```

Reference: <https://docs.chef.io/inspec/profiles/>

### `Expect syntax` and Password Hashes

Here we have an inspec test that checks if passwords are SHA512 hashes. As a quick thought exercise can you think of how we can adjust the control below to support SHA512 or higher assuming where you are testing uses SHA1024 or even SHA2048?

As we said, when possible, and when there is a high change of a large set only having a few offending items, attempt to find only those items that could be outside our requirements, if there are none, wonderful, we met our requirement.

```ruby
bad_users = inspec.shadow.where { password != "*" && password != "!" && password !~ /\$6\$/ }.users

describe 'Password hashes in /etc/shadow' do
  it 'should only contain SHA512 hashes' do
    failure_message = "Users without SHA512 hashes: #{bad_users.join(', ')}"
    expect(bad_users).to be_empty, failure_message
  end
end
```
